---
layout: post
title: "Intro to Texts & Tech"
---

## Course Description

This course provides an introduction to the PhD in Texts and Technology. Throughout this course, we will explore Texts & Technology through theory and practice, with an emphasis on interdisciplinarity, understanding academic fields and their relationships to each other, developing an academic identity, and fundamentals of success for both graduate school and academia. Each week will include a combination of readings, exercises, discussions, and progress towards a draft journal article and professional academic web presence. PR: Graduate standing or C.I.

- **Weekly Readings and Lecture.** The full schedule of required readings is listed in the syllabus: additional recommended readings will be provided in each module. Weekly lectures and discussion will take place in the classroom: however, Zoom attendance is available for those who need it.

- **Online Activities.** This course requires substantial independent work: as part of the mixed-mode structure, additional lectures and tutorials will be available through Webcourses, with an emphasis on the iterative development of the semester projects.

---

## Course Objectives

- Explore the six tracks of Texts & Technology through analysis and discussion of core texts
- Learn about the numerous interdisciplinary fields that inform and influence the practice and theorizing of texts and technology.
- Become familiar with some core concepts that will recur throughout the T&T program, and which form the theoretical basis and backbone of the program.
- Be introduced to some of the basic concerns, concepts, and methods in the emerging interdisciplinary scholarship of Texts and Technology.
- Engage in scholarly conversation about the course texts and concepts they take up, in the process improving interpretation, writing, design, and argumentation skills.
- Understand program policies and expectations as well as professional presentation and publication strategies.
- Understand the fundamentals of web platforms.
- Apply basic syntax and markup language to build structured web documents (e.g., HTML).

---

## Materials and Texts

This course requires texts drawn from the T&T core list. All books are available open access or for free through the UCF library:

- Ahmed, Sara. *On Being Included: Racism and Diversity in Institutional Life.* Duke University Press, 2012. [Access for free through UCF Library](https://go.openathens.net/redirector/ucf.edu?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.jstor.org%2Fstable%2Fj.ctv1131d2g)
- Bogost, Ian. *Persuasive Games: The Expressive Power of Video Games.* MIT Press, 2007. [Access for free through UCF Library](https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/ucf/detail.action?docID=3338706)
- Bolter, Jay David. *Writing Space: Computers, Hypertext, and the Remediation of Print.* Routledge, 2001. [Access for free through UCF Library](https://go.openathens.net/redirector/ucf.edu?url=https%3A%2F%2Fdoi.org%2F104324%2F9781410600110)
- Gold, Matthew K., and Lauren Klein (eds.) *Debates in the Digital Humanities.* University of Minnesota Press, 2016. [Open Access](https://dhdebates.gc.cuny.edu/projects/debates-in-the-digital-humanities-2016)
- Klein, Julie Thompson. *Interdisciplining Digital Humanities: Boundary Work in an Emerging Field.* University of Michigan Press, 2015. [Open Access](https://muse.jhu.edu/book/52267)
- Manovich, Lev. *Software Takes Command.* Bloomsbury, 2013. [Open Access](https://issuu.com/bloomsburypublishing/docs/9781623566722_web)
- Nakamura, Lisa. *Digitizing Race: Visual Cultures of the Internet.* University of Minnesota Press, 2007. [Access for free through UCF Library](https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/ucf/detail.action?docID=334221)
- Vee, Annette. *Coding Literacy: How Computer Programming is Changing Writing.* MIT Press, 2017. [Access for free through UCF Library](https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/ucf/detail.action?docID=5340074)

Supplementary suggested readings are included in each module to guide additional exploration of the field.
